EMPLOYMENT HISTORY

Employer: CMA CGM Group (NOL/APL), Singapore Nov 2014 to Present

Project: Central Data Management (CDM)
Role: Service Support Lead/Data Analyst

• Collaborated with business stakeholders to understand their decision making requirements, business questions and built reports on business metrices and key indicators. • Supported and maintained CMA CGM Central Data Management (CDM) application developed in Semarchy xDM. • Extracted data from multiple data sources using complex SQL queries, conducted data-driven analysis to provide reports and dashboards that visualize data insights for influencing business decisions. • Conduct ETL operations for new applications to integrate to CDM application. • Co-ordinate with software development team for CDM releases and to setup data pipelines. • Build prototypes on automated tools for data sanity checks and data-cleansing. • Lead and collaborate weekly status meeting with key stakeholders and provide progress reports.

Write Up
req : Support CMA CGM's Central Data Management which involves the below responsibilities

handle ad hoc report and data analysis request.
co-ordinate with stakeholders, IT support teams and Testing team for CDM quarterly release or CDM integration projects
Support campaigns
I have played a key role as a senior data analyst and service support lead in the CDM services, for close to two years. The CDM system, which is built on Semarchy xDM data management system, manages the entire CMA CGM enterprise system master data. It has master data for customers, vessels, locations for entire CMA CGM applications and has inbuilt data governance mechanisms. As part of this team I was involved in data analysis, report, dashboard and story generation, and management of quarterly CDM system releases. I was also involved in multiple integration projects to CDM, which involved data source identification, data mapping between the CDM and downstream application, preparing data pipeline and support to migration via ETL and verify the data from CDM to downstream application. I have collaborated with cross-functional stakeholders through discussions, questionnaires and workshops for collecting and documenting the requirements, for the data analysis and report generation activities activities. These activities vary from easy to complex, depends on the requirements and issues, and used a variety of tools and techniques.

For example, • Used a combination of python and SQL queries for extraction, scrubbing of data and mining as per business requirement. • I have used sklearn and pandas libraries for various analysis techniques to build reports. • Used SSIS or BODS for the ETL • Tableau and Seaborn and Matplotlib for the report generation. Apart from that, I have worked with software development team for CDM releases and to set up data pipelines. Also, I have contributed in the building of automation tools for various repetitive tasks.

Release related Words
RFF - Request For Fix --> document that describes solution for issue raised via incident to business for approval. RFS - Request for Solution --> document that describes a technological or organizational situation and demands a solution (for example, a new arrangement of information technology, IT) to possible suppliers of this solution.

Project: CMA CGM Integration Project
Role: Data Analyst

• Implemented solutions for data extraction from multiple data stores, data-cleansing and mining to identify, merge or delete duplicate data. • Developed tools to identify patterns from CMA and APL business partner data models, and built data correlations with CMA partner ID and APL CAP codes. • Conducted presentations to the cross functional stakeholders including business teams on the trends and actionable insights. • Enhanced the SQL queries which have been created for data optimization. • Prepared integrated views and dashboards on CMA and APL data for cross functional teams.

Write Up
• Collaborated with business stakeholders to understand their decision-making Discussion Workshops Design To get details on the issue

requirements, business questions and built reports on business metrices and key indicators. • Lead and collaborate weekly status meeting with key stakeholders and provide progress reports. document signoffs Excel questionnaire • Supported and maintained CMA CGM Central Data Management (CDM) application developed in Semarchy xDM. o Data analysis to ensure data quality o Data migration to downstream CMA CGM applications via ETL o Report generation Data extraction using complex SQLs, upload to data mart. Data pre- processing, Scrubbing, mining. SQL, ETL via SSIS / BODS, python sklearn, numpy, pandas, matplotlib, seaborn libraries, tableau To find the root cause by identifying the data anomalies To generate the reports from the datasets • Extracted data from multiple data sources using complex SQL queries, conducted data- driven analysis to provide reports and dashboards that visualize data insights for influencing business decisions. Data extraction using complex SQLs, upload to data mart. Data pre- processing, Scrubbing, mining. Come up with business insights SQL, ETL via SSIS / BODS, python sklearn, numpy, pandas, matplotlib, seaborn libraries, tableau Resolution identification • Conduct ETL operations for new applications to integrate to CDM application. • Co-ordinate with software development team for CDM releases and to setup data pipelines. Data mapping SQL, ETL via SSIS / BODS • Build prototypes on automated tools for data sanity checks and data-cleansing. SQL, python

Project: Global Equipment Management
Role: Service Support Lead/Data Analyst

• Built dashboards and reports for evaluating the operational productivity and business KPIs, to help stakeholders in optimizing the business operations and on their business questions. • Developed tools to collect and reconcile accrual data between FNCA (Finance and Cost Accounting) and GEM MNR (Maintenance and Repair) systems for accounting. • Analyzed the datasets using quantitative methods, and helped to resolve issues in data migration from legacy systems to GEM. • Redesigned automation tools for anomaly detection and data-cleansing, on delinquent container data to help business to reduce operational cost. • Automation scripts were developed to identify and handle the incorrect EDI suspense datasets from GEM, to improve the efficiency of back office operations. • Demonstrated a deep collaboration with stakeholders from multiple cross functional and technology teams across APAC and EMEA regions to work on data related tickets, incidents and problems. • Coordinated internal reviews on data quality and compliance, and worked with internal and external audit teams for compliance assessments.

Employer: Peter Klare Consulting Services, Singapore Feb 2013 to Sep 2014 Project: Cloud services Bridge
Role: Developer

• Contributed to the development of a cloud-based document store in Java/J2EE and webservices for Fuji Xerox, that enables users to browse, scan and print documents from Dropbox, Evernote and SharePoint. • Developed a profile management system using REST web service calls and using Amazon SDK, for efficient access management to the stores.

Employer: IBM Sep 2011 to Jan 2013 Project: MUST (My Ultimate Shipping Tool)
Role: Technical Lead / Developer

• Improved the process design and data management for cargo services, by developing a tool using Java webservices and Oracle ADF. • Contributed to the design and development of a Business Event Management system using Java/J2EE. • Involved in the design and development of data stores for Bill Of Lading in Oracle WebCenter technology.

Employer: Capgemini Nov 2010 to Sep 2011 Project: SunPower Web Management
Role: Module Lead/Developer

• Enhanced the data visualisations and presentations in the SunPower Corp. web applications, to help the business for higher reachability. • Faster and optimized web assets and page templates were developed using Java, JSP and JSF. Employer: Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. Mar 2006 to Oct 2010 Project: AXIS Bank and ING Greenfield
Role: Module Lead/Developer

• Contributed in the development of an insurance document retention software in Java/J2EE and Documentum. • Part of the development team to build a document scanning and storage software, using Documentum and Captiva InputAccel. • Helped the customers in Financial services, in easy data entry and storage of banking documents, by developing an image capture application in VBA and using macros.

